First you need to register your application as a client with Google.
Log in to Google API, Credentials, Create credentials for OAuth client ID.
The type is web application.
For the authorized redirect URL, set localhost login/oauth2/code/google.
This is for additional security.
Google will only redirect users' browsers to the authorized URIs.
Now for demo purposes,
we can use localhost as the browser and the web
application is running locally on our PCs.
But in production, this would not work.
Google will display the client ID and client secret to you.
The client ID is the unique identifier for your application,
and the secret must be kept secure.
Do not hard-code it in your application.
Keep it safe in a place like Vault.
If your secret is exposed, then a hacker can easily mascaraed as your site.
Now in the application.yml file, under security OAuth 2012 client registration,
you can put in google the client ID and the secret.
Again, for demo purposes, we have the secret here in plain text.
However, in production, inject it in as a property and keep it secure.
Now you can configure multiple providers on the registration,
like Facebook, Okta, etc.
Okay, now in the Configuration class,
we just set up the oath2Login authentication filter using its
builder method in the HttpSecurity object.
By default, once authenticated with Google,
the oauth2Login authentication filter will create an authenticated principal
with the role User and add it to the security context.
Now this works really well for our site.
However, if you need other roles/privileges,
you can use the authorizationEndpoint and provide your
own authorizationRequestRespository,
which will load the roles from your identity store.
For the demo, if it's the first time the user accesses the site,
we need to create them a portfolio.
Again, we can add that in the SuccessHandler,
which is the class that implements the
AuthenticationSuccessHandler interface and overrides the
AuthenticationSuccessHandler method and annotate it as a component.
You can then check if the user has a portfolio set up.
If not,
we create one for them using the username set in the authenticated principal.
If needed, we can access the Google profile properties on a token,
like the name, the email, etc., that we might need to register the user.
That's it.
Let's start up the application.
We now have the Google authentication link.
If we select it, we get the Google sign-in.
If you're already logged into Google,
then you might ask it to select your account and give permission for the site.
You now have access to the site.
Now you'll probably want to add the Google sign-in button to your login page.
In the Configuration class for oauth2Login, we can set the login page.
And in the login HTML,
we can add the link that submits to oauth/authorization/google.
Now that's it.
Spring Security will now do the rest.
Setting up other providers is also very simple.
Register your application with them, example Facebook,
you need to create a developer account,
and simply add the sign- in button to the login page and add the client ID and
secret in the application.yml for the OAuth2 registration.
Nice and simple.
Now this is just a primer of Spring Security OAuth2 support.
It can actually be a whole course in itself. But hopefully, this has given you a starting point.